Question: This composer’s “Little” and “Great” G minor symphonies are the only two minor of his 41 symphonies. The last of these symphonies was nicknamed “Jupiter” by Johann Salomon. “Der Hölle Rache” by this composer requires a soprano to hit a high (*) F6 note while ordering her daughter to kill the sorcerer Sarastro. The Queen of the Night appears in a work by this composer where she enlists Tamino to save her daughter. According to legend, this composer left his Requiem unfinished because he was poisoned by Antonio Salieri. For 10 points, name this Austrian child prodigy and composer of The Magic Flute.
Answer: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart [prompt on partial answers not including Mozart]
Question: This composer included words from the Book of Revelations in a composition commemorating the victory of the Franco-Prussian War. That work was Triumphlied and was dedicated to Kaiser Wilhelm I. After this composer received an honorary degree from the University of Breslau (*) that prompted him to make the Academic Festival Overture. This is usually paired with his Tragic Overture due to its contrast. This composer’s German Requiem was put together after this composer’s mother died, while the death of his friend Robert Schumann may have also been the cause. For 10 points, name this composer of a namesake lullaby.
Answer: Johannes Brahms [prompt on “Johannes”]
Question: “A Fireproof House for $5,000” was a concept of this architect who has had his design for an art museum described as an “inverted ziggurat”. Mamah Borthwick, this architect’s mistress, died when this man’s home was burned down. The Johnson Wax Headquarters were also designed by this architect. (*) Taliesin West was this architect’s studio in Scottsdale, Arizona. An Imperial Hotel that survived a 1923 Tokyo earthquake is one of the works of this man along with the Guggenheim museum in New York City. The Kaufmann family had this architect extend cantilevered floors over Bear Run. For 10 points, name this architect of Fallingwater in Pennsylvania.
Answer: Frank Lloyd Wright
Question: A piece by this composer, which was inspired by a Watteau painting, begins with a long trill between C sharp and D sharp and ends with the right hand playing the lowest note on the piano. Wagner’s Tristan chord was satirically quoted by this composer who based a prelude on the legend of Ys [“ees”]. (*) The Children’s Corner suite was one of the works of this composer, whose third movement in his Suite Bergamasque was inspired by a Paul Verlaine Poem. A satyr playing the panpipes is imitated in another one of this man’s pieces. For 10 points, name this French composer of Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun and Clair de Lune. 
Answer: Claude Debussy
Question: A sculpture by this artist was so realistic that he yelled at it to speak. That bald statue was of Habakkuk and was nicknamed Zuccone. This artist depicted a woman in rags with her hands folded in prayer and included two fake doors. Those works were the Penitent Magdalene (*) and Gattamelata, which depicted Erasmo of Narni riding a horse. In yet another sculpture, this sculptor depicts an effeminate figure holding a large sword while resting his foot on a disembodied, helmeted head. That work was the first nude sculpture of the Renaissance. For 10 points, name this Florentine sculptor of a bronze David.
Answer: Donatello
Question: The Ave Maria was inspired by a set of pieces in all 24 major and minor keys by this composer. An oft-excepted chaconne in D minor is from the Sonatas and Partitas for Solo Violin by this composer, whose Mass in B minor contains the “Symbolum Nicenum” section. A tune written by (*) Frederick the Great was used for A Musical Offering by this composer. A work that this composer composed was supposedly created to help Count Kaiserling sleep. The Brandenburg concertos were by, for 10 points, what German Baroque composer of the Well Tempered Clavier and Goldberg Variations.
Answer: J. S. Bach
Question: One character in this work receives a letter from their mother wishing them to marry Micaëla. Lillas Pastia’s Inn is a location in this work that sees a character sing a seductive seguidilla to their guard to escape detainment. The Card Aria sees the discovery of the (*) unlucky fate of the soprano of the opera, who compares love to a rebellious bird. That character, who works at a cigarette factory, is fought over by the bullfighter Escamillo and Don Jose. The latter of the two ends up bringing about the death of the character who sings the “Habanera” aria in this opera. For 10 points, name this work by Georges Bizet about the gypsy girl that is won over in the Toreador Song.
Answer: Carmen
Question: A phallic golden work by this sculptor was removed from being displayed at the Salon des Indépendants due to its obscene nature. Another work by this artist sees the titular Hungarian girl with almond-shaped eyes and an egg-shaped head wrap her arms around herself. (*) Princess X and Mademoiselle Pogany were made by this creator of the Table of Silence, which is surrounded by 12 hourglass-shaped seats. That work accompanies a 16 rhomboid tall work, Endless Column, in this sculptor’s hometown of Târgu Jiu. A tax controversy arose from a series by this artist, which was supposedly not considered art by the U.S. customs and taxed as metal. In another work by this artist, two limestone blocks embrace in the titular action. For 10 points, name this Romanian sculptor of Bird in Space and The Kiss.
Answer: Constantin Brâncuși
Question: A 5/8 Jarabe [hah-RAH-bay] trumpet solo was featured in a suite by this composer that heavily quotes “Goodbye, Old Paint” and depicts a gun battle using kettle and snare drums. An ascending “F B-flat F” is played by trumpets in a piece by this composer who also included a doppio movimento in one of his ballets. (*) A Henry Wallace inspired a brass and percussion piece by this composer who included excerpts from the Gettysburg Address in his Lincoln Portrait. Agnes de Mille and Martha Graham collaborated with this composer on his works that featured a “Hoe-Down” and a pioneer couple. Those works were Rodeo and Appalachian Spring respectively. Fanfare for the Common Man was composed by, for 10 points, what American composer of Billy the Kid?
Answer: Aaron Copland
Question: Oscar Niemeyer collaborated with this developer of the Dom-Ino House to design the U.N. Headquarters. L’Esprit Nouveau names both a palace and magazine that were created by this architect. The idea of a “Radiant City” was used by this formulator of a namesake (*) modular system that was based on the golden ratio. A modernist house in Poissy designed by him incorporates pilotis, while an open hand motif is used in a city that he planned. That city is Chandigarh, India. The “five points of architecture” by this man, which include rooftop gardens, were put forth in Towards a New Architecture. For 10 points, name this famous French-Swiss architect of Villa Savoye and Notre Dame du Haut.
Answer: Le Corbusier [accept Charles-Édouard Jeanneret-Gris]
Question: One work by this artist, many of which are owned by Arthayer R. Sanborn, inspired the house in Alfred Hitchcock’s Psycho. Another work by this painter is described as “The Jumping Off Place” and includes an ocean view on the right side of the painting. House by the Railroad and Rooms by the Sea were painted by this artist who also portrayed a woman in an orange dress looking out her window in Cape Cod Morning (*). In this artist’s work Automat, a woman in a yellow hat peers into her coffee illuminated by two rows of lights above her. This man’s wife Josephine modeled for many of his paintings which include the previously mentioned one and another that sees two women sitting at a table with a red teapot between them. In yet another work, advertisements for Phillies cigars can be clearly seen. For 10 points, name this American painter of Chop Suey and Nighthawks.
Answer: Edward Hopper
Question: Max Richter’s Recomposed is based on this set of works which serve the same role to Michel Corette’s Laudate Dominum de coelis. Complementary sonnets were written by the composer of this composition which depicts a sleeping drunkard and the barking of a dog. (*) That drunkard is woken up by a thirty-second note “thunderstorm" while the barking is represented by a two-note viola motif. The call of a cuckoo is also imitated in these works that make up the first of the twelve parts of The Contest Between Harmony and Invention. A violin represents howling blizzard winds in, for 10 points, what set of violin concertos by Antonia Vivaldi that includes “Summer” and “Spring”?
Answer: The Four Seasons
Question: In an opera by this composer, a tenor compares the blond-haired titular character to the painting of Mary Magdalene that he is working on. That is sung in the aria “Recondita Armonia” which precedes “E lucevan le stelle” sung by a painter as he awaits his execution. The latter of the two arias is accompanied by a B-minor clarinet solo. (*) In another opera, a character sings “vincero” three times after the aria “Nessun Dorma”. That character pursues the title princes and answers her three riddles. In yet another opera by this composer, the arrival of Pinkerton in Japan leads to Cio-Cio San committing seppuku. For 10 points, name this Italian composer of Tosca, Turandot, and Madame Butterfly.
Answer: Giacomo Puccini
Question: This artist, whose “Nuclear Mysticism” period was inspired by Hiroshima, appears in the bottom left of his work The Ecumenical Council. One work by this artist features a reclining nude woman looking up at two tigers emerging from a fish emerging from a pomegranate. That work features the spindly-legged elephant motif that is also present in another of this artist’s work. The Temptation of St. Anthony portrays a nude man holding a crucifix to a giant rearing horse. (*) A lip shaped sofa and a flower growing from a cracked egg held by a stone hand are two objects that appear in works by this man. Jesus is crucified on a hypercube in one work by this creator of Lobster Telephone. Atomic bombs inspired the “disintegration” of this artist’s most famous work, which sees ants on an orange object. For 10 points, melting clocks appear in what Spanish surrealist’s painting The Persistence of Memory.
Answer: Salvador Dali
Question: A 12/8 Pifa in a piece by this composer introduces a scene of “shepherds abiding in the field”. Rinaldo was an opera by this composer whose Ode for St. Cecilia’s Day sets music to a John Dryden poem. A set of orchestral suites by this composer includes one in D major with a “Alla Hornpipe” section, which is preceded by one in F major that includes “Air” and “Bourrée” sections. (*) One work by this composer contains a movement titled “Largo alla siciliana” which also contains the movements “La Paix” and “La Réjouissance”. Zadok the Priest is a work by this composer that has been performed at every British coronation since 1727. In a work that has the chorus “And he shall reign for ever and ever”, King George II supposedly set the precedent of standing during. For 10 points, name this German composer of Water Music and the famous “Hallelujah” chorus as part of his oratorio Messiah.
Answer: George Frideric Handel
Question: The first act of this ballet ends with “Dance of the Goblets” and sees a prince go crossbow hunting with his friends instead of choosing a bride. A solo oboe plays beginning with F-sharp in that same act. 32 fouettés are performed in the coda of a pas de deux of this ballet by the lead ballerina who commonly dresses in both white and black. Matthew Bourne created an all-male version of this ballet which was revived by Lev Ivanov and Marius Petipa. (*) Riccardo Drigo edited this ballet which includes Hungarian, Mazurka, Spanish, and Neopolitan dances. Four dancers perform numerous pas de chats in this ballet that commonly has Odile and Odette played by the same person. The main character of this ballet jumps into a pond after mistakenly choosing the daughter of the evil sorcerer von Rothbart. For 10 points, what ballet by Peter Tchaikovsky has Odette cursed to turn into the titular bird.
Answer: Swan Lake
Question: A version of The Death of Marat was made by this artist and depicts a nude woman standing near a dead body on a blood-stained bed. A portrait of this man, who depicted a red-haired woman kissing a man’s neck in Love and Pain, depicts him “with cigarette” while another puts him “between the clock and the bed”. Vampire is a work by this artist of Puberty (*), which shows a nude girl sitting on a bed. The death of this man’s sister was depicted in Death in the Sickroom, which is part of this author’s Frieze of Life series. Madonna refers to several paintings by this author that depict a nude woman with a red halo. A famous work by this painter shows two men in dark clothing on a bridge behind one at the forefront of the painting displaying the titular emotion. Despair and Anxiety are by, for 10 points, what Norwegian author of The Scream?
Answer: Edvard Munch