Question: The border between Tanzania and Rwanda is formed by the farthest tributary of this river. That river was called the Black River in ancient times and is now known as the Kagera River. Although it was never completed, the Jonglei Canal planned to divert a tributary of this river through the Sudd Wetlands. (*) A Lake Tana-sourced “Blue” tributary of this river joins the Lake Victoria-sourced “White” tributary at Khartoum. The “Great Bend” is found on this river, whose last six cataracts are separated from the Aswan High Dam. That separation is made by Lake Nasser. For 10 points, name this longest river in the world, which empties into the Mediterranean sea through Egypt.
Answer: Nile River
Question: Prior to a dam building project in 1972, this river contained the former Turkish exclave of Ada Kaleh. The Illuminati were founded on a city on this river, which can be crossed via the Szechenyi (“zay-chen-yee”) Bridge. Novi Sad, the capital of Vojvodina lies on this river. (*) The Iron Gates is a dam of this river with the Prut, Sava, and Tisza rivers as tributaries. The Schönbrunn Palace and a museum that holds many of Bruegel’s paintings are in a city that lies on this river. The Heroes Square is in another city on this river. Originating in the Black Forest of Germany, this second longest river in Europe empties into the Black Sea. For 10 points, name this river that flows through Bratislava, Belgrade, Budapest, and Vienna.
Answer: Danube River
Question: The Chagga people reside near this mountain which is near the town of Moshi. Stella Point lies on this mountain that contains the Barranco Wall. The Western Breach was created by a landslide on this mountain that had its peak named after Kaiser Wilhelm II prior to being renamed to (*) “Uhuru”. Gilman’s Point lies in this mountain that was first scaled by Ludwig Purtscheller and Hans Meyer in 1899. Along with the Furtwangler and Rebmann glaciers, this mountain contains the cones Shira, Mawenzi, and Kibo. The border between British and German East Africa was this mountain whose peak translates as “Freedom Peak”. For 10 points, name this tallest mountain in Africa that lies in Tanzania.
Answer: Mount Kilimanjaro