Question: Gylfaginning describes a myth in which this god, whose Proto-Germanic name translates to “lord of frenzy”, and his two brothers killed the giant Ymir. He is portrayed as the son of Bestia and Borr, and is accompanied by two ravens who bring him information. (*) Those ravens are Huginn and Muninn. This god stole the Mead of Poetry disguised as Bolverk and hung himself from Yggdrasil to gain knowledge. Fathering Thor and Baldr, he is usually portrayed with one eye and a long beard. For 10 points, name this chief Norse god who wields the spear Gungnir.
Answer: Odin
Question: Ardhanarishvara is an androgynous form of this deity who settled a dispute between two other gods as a pillar of fire. The Ganga river flows from the hair of this deity that rides the white bull Nandi. The dwarf Apasmara is trampled by this “Lord of the (*) Dance” in his nataraja form. The trident and lingam are also symbols of this god who swallowed the Halahala poison during the churning of the ocean of milk. That action caused his throat to turn blue. After cutting off his son’s head, this god’s wife, Parvati, forced him to put an elephant’s head in its place. For 10 points, name this Hindu destroyer deity who is a member of the Trimurti with Brahma and Vishnu.
Answer: Shiva
Question: By riddling a dwarf until dawn, this god caused that dwarf to turn to stone in the presence of the sun. Once this god discovered that the bone marrow of one of his animals had been consumed, he made two siblings become his servants. Hymir, who went fishing with this god, cut their fishing line when this deity hooked Jörmungandr [YOR-mun-gander] with an ox head. (*) Tanngniost [tan-yoast-er] and Tanngrisnir [tan-gris-nir] are two resurrecting goats that pull the Chariot of this god who has a piece of whetstone stuck in his head. That piece found its place following a fight with Hrungnir. Roskva and Thjalfi serve this husband of the golden-haired Sif. This god was unable to lift a cat that was a disguised version of the Midgard Serpent which will kill and be killed by him. Freya was imitated by, for 10 points, what Norse wielder of Mjolnir and god of thunder.
Answer: Thor
Question: This killer of the servant Fimafeng saved himself from decapitation after losing a bet by arguing that he never bet his neck. His mouth was subsequently sewn shut by Brokkr, who was bitten in the eye by this god in their gadfly form. The thrashing of this deity supposedly causes earthquakes as venom from a serpent drips on him and causes pain. This god was binded by a set of ropes that were created from Narfi, an offspring of this god who was killed by his brother. (*) After turning into a mare to prevent the finishing of the walls of Asgard, this deity gives birth to the eight-legged horse Sleipnir. Thor is accompanied on a mission to Jotunheim by this god who lost an eating contest to fire. Hodr was tricked into killing Baldr with mistletoe by this father of Jörmungandr, Hel, and Fenrir. For 10 points, name this Norse trickster god.
Answer: Loki