Question: This philosopher, who argued that we cannot know the outcome of the collision of two billiard balls without previous experience, is credited with “causing the scales to fall” from the eyes of Bentham. He went along with his brother to Edinburgh University despite only being 10 or 11, studying a variety of subjects. His namesake (*) “fork” is the distinction between relation of ideas and matters of fact that often has negative implications towards him. This Scottish empiricist is famously quoted as saying “Reason is, and ought only to be the slave of the passions.” For 10 points, name this author of A Treatise of Human Nature who famously awoke Kant from his “dogmatic slumbers.”
Answer: David Hume
Question: As a secretary, this man authored the Fundamental Constitutions of Carolina. Robert Filmer’s Patriarcha was dismissed by this thinker who argued for tolerance for everyone but Catholics and atheists. Personal identity was identified with memory by this thinker, whose “proviso” was illustrated with the (*) people picking “apples from the trees.” That concept sets labor as a condition of ownership. A Letter Concerning Toleration by this thinker established the idea of the “tabula rasa” in his Essay Concerning Human Understanding. Governments that do not have the consent of the people ought to be overthrown according to this thinker. For 10 points, name this British “Father of Liberalism” who authored Two Treatises of Government.
Answer: John Locke
Question: A four-square grid often illustrates examples of perfect and imperfect duties by this thinker, who claimed that “Humanity itself is dignity.” An ethical system proposed by this thinker holds lying to be immoral, even to a murderer. That “kingdom of ends” required acting by certain principles and was one of three formulas listed for one concept. (*) Space and time were used as examples of synthetic a priori knowledge by this thinker who contrasted noumena and phenomena. This philosopher argued his categorical imperative in his Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, stating that one must act following maxims that could become a universal law. “Sapere aude” was said by this philosopher to answer “What is enlightenment?” with “man’s emergence from his self-imposed immaturity.”  For 10 points, name this German author of the Critique of Pure Reason.
Answer: Immanuel Kant
Question: “The ghost in the machine” was a derision of one of this thinker’s works in The Concept of Mind. That work by Gilbert Ryle referenced the “category mistake” of this thinker, whose “circular” proof for the existence of God depended on trusting “clear and distinct ideas”. An evil demon is named after this thinker who authored Passions of the Soul. (*) Elizabeth of Bohemia criticized this thinker who associated the pineal gland with the soul. The melting wax argument was utilized by this namesake of an inseparable mind and body dualism that included res cogitans and res extensa. Meditations on First Philosophy was written by, for 10 points, what French author who claimed “I think, therefore I am.”
Answer: Rene Descartes
Question: Walter Kaufmann wrote about this thinker who analogized a tightrope walker to human struggle. Elizabeth Förster, the sister of this thinker, edited his works after his death to be more nationalistic and anti-semitic. The Apollonian and Dionysian were contrasted by this thinker in a work that concerns the titular dramatical form. (*) That work was The Birth of Tragedy. Chapters titled “Why am I so wise” and “Why I Write Such Good Books” are found in the autobiography of this thinker, Ecce Homo. This critic of “English psychologists” made the love of fate, or amor fati, central to his philosophy. The Übermensch was outlined in a work by this thinker that follows a prophetic protagonist. For 10 points, what German philosopher who wrote Thus Spoke Zarathustra and The Gay Science claimed that “God is dead”?
Answer: Friedrich Nietzsche
Question: The teachings of a member of this school was compiled into the Enchiridion by his student Arrian. Discourses is another work of this school whose idea of ekpyrosis holds that the universe is periodically destroyed by fire. A member of this school supposedly died of laughter after watching a donkey eating some figs and making a joke about bringing it some wine. (*) A namesake painted porch was where Zeno of Citium taught this school, whose principle of Prohairesis represents that which is the only thing truly within your power. Epictetus, Seneca the Younger, Chrysippus, and Marcus Aurelius are all members of this school whose four virtues are espoused in Meditations. For 10 points, name this ancient philosophical school that promotes self-control and impassivity from one’s emotions.
Answer: Stoicism
Question: The Owl of Minerva flying at dusk was used by this thinker to explain that philosophy can only understand the past after it has ended. Three spheres of abstract right, morality, and ethical life are posited by this subject of a series of lectures by Alexander Kojève. The term aufhebung, translated as “sublation” was used by this philosopher. (*) The “Young” followers of this man included Ludwig Feuerbach and Bruno Bauer while the “Right” followers included Karl Daub and Johann Philipp Gabler. In his Lectures on the Philosophy of History, this thinker claimed that Africa is “no historical part of the world”. The concept of the geist was put forth by this namesake of a dialectic that includes a thesis, antithesis, and synthesis. For 10 points, name this German philosopher who included the master-slave dialectic in his The Phenomenology of Spirit.
Answer: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel