Question: During this month, daybreak is said to begin when the eye can distinguish between a white thread and a black one. Laylat Al-Qadr is an important night during this time period, and it is said that it is better than 1,000 months. The primary action of this month is broken by (*) iftar, which is done at sunset. This month, in which the Quran was revealed to Prophet Mohamed (PBUH), is the ninth of the Islamic calendar. For 10 points, name this month during which Muslims fast, and just began last night.
Answer: Ramadan
Question: A cookie filled with dates called ma'mul and Cambaabur, a Somali bread that is topped with sugar and served with yogurt on top are some of the foods commonly eaten during this holiday. This holiday is widely called Korite in West Africa, (*) but its more common name translates to Festival of Breaking the Fast. This day is the first day in the month of Shawwal and the only day in that month where it is not permissible to fast. Sighting a new moon signals this holiday that includes a prayer on the first day of celebrations. For 10 points, name this holiday that marks the end of Ramadan and is being celebrated today.
Answer: Eid Al-Fitr
Question: An empire of this religion which included four provinces including Punjab formed after the deterioration of the Mughal Empire. The Khanda, consisting of a namesake double edged sword in the center, is the symbol of this religion. This religion’s worship takes place in (*) gurdwaras and involves the act of singing hymns from the Adi Granth, its sacred text. Male followers of this monotheistic religion wear turbans and believe in 10 gurus. The final of these, Guru Nanak founded this religion. For 10 points, name this Indian religion that is known for its five k’s.
Answer: Sikhism
Question: A 116-page book which is not part of this book was supposedly lost by Martin Harris and is the subject of much criticism. Lehi leads his family to the promised land from Jerusalem before it falls to the Babylonians in this book where a compass named Liahona stops working. The seer stones (*) Urim and Thummim were used to translate this text whose authenticity is backed by the Testimony of Three Witnesses and the Testimony of Eight Witnesses. The word for “honeybee” from this text names the location Deseret. The angel Moroni revealed this text in the form of golden plates written in “reformed Egyptian” to Joseph Smith. For 10 points, name this fundamental text of the Latter Day Saints movement, which is buried in New York.
Answer: Book of Mormon
Question: Adherents of this religion practice a form of meditation called Samayika during the festival of Paryushan. The dharmachakra in the middle of a hand serves as a symbol of this religion, whose universe consists of three realms. Disagreement over whether this religion’s original scriptures were lost stands between (*) the Svetambara and Digambara sects of this religion. They are also the “white-clad” and “sky-clad” sects respectively, with the former not owning or wearing any clothes. Teachings of this religion come from the 24 tirthankaras or “ford-makers” who served as spiritual leaders. Members of this religion commonly wear masks and sweep the ground in front of them to avoid killing insects. For 10 points, name this religion that emphasizes its philosophy of nonviolence, or ahimsa.
Answer: Jainism
Question: Adherents of this faith believe that Lake Kansava will be the source of a savior figure. A river in this religion that both the living and dead must walk through will feel like warm milk for those who are righteous while the rest burn. That occurs during Frashokereti, which will also see the Saoshyant rid the world of druj. Chinvat Bridge is believed to be guarded by two four-eyed dogs (*) and is where adherents of this religion will be judged. Following the Navjote initiation, the souls of followers of this religion go to either the House of Song or the House of Lies. The Avesta is the main text of this religion that places corpses in circular “towers of silence”, dakhmas, to be eaten by vultures. Followers of this religion worship at fire temples and believe in the conflict between Ahura Mazda and the evil counterpart Angra Mainyu. For 10 points, name this dualistic Persian religion that is named for its prophet.
Answer: Zoroastrianism