Question: This quantity is proportional to the surface area of the event horizon of a black hole. This thermodynamic potential of the microcanonical ensemble is found for a monatomic ideal gas in the Sackur-Tetrode equation. The value of this quantity decreases when two ideal gasses composed of indistinguishable particles are mixed in a thought experiment developed by Gibbs, who also stated this as being the (*), “mixed-up-ness” that remains after a system’s macroscopic properties are considered. One of the first definitions of this quantity was expressed as heat over temperature. For a perfect crystal at zero kelvin, this quantity can only be zero. This “arrow of time” can be defined as Boltzmann’s constant times the log of the number of microstates. For 10 points, the second law of thermodynamics states that what measure of disorder in a system, symbolized S, is always increasing?
Answer: Entropy [prompt on S before read]
Question: This force, which is related to the loss of fluid pressure in a pipe according to the Darcy-Weisbach equation, has its relation to entrainment speed and viscosity modeled in the Stribeck Curve. A non-electromagnetic law of Coulomb states that this force is independent of velocity, (*) whereas two laws of Amonton have it directly proportional to applied load but independent of contact area. This important force in tribology is proportional to the normal force times its namesake coefficient, mu. Coming in static and kinetic varieties is, for 10 points, what force that opposes motion?
Answer: Friction
Question: The k-epsilon model has one form of this quantity as proportional to the ratio of k-squared divided by epsilon, whereas the Kolmogorov length scale is proportional to the one-fourth power of this quantity cubed over epsilon. Given the temperature of an ideal gas, this quantity is proportional to the three-halves power of temperature over reference temperature according to Sutherland’s formula. (*) Thixotropic materials have a decrease in this quantity over time whereas rheopectic materials have an increase. When this quantity, a type of which obeys the Oswald-de Waele power-law in dilatant and pseudoplastic materials, is near zero in the Navier-Stokes equations, Euler’s equations can be found. The ratio of internal forces to forces of this kind yields Reynold’s number. Kinematic and Dynamic varieties exist for this quantity that is constant in Newtonian fluids and zero in superfluids. For 10 points, name this quantity, measured in pascal-seconds, which is a fluid’s resistance to flow.
Answer: Viscosity
Question: To find the best obtainable resolution between two points sources, the Rayleigh Criterion, which is due to this phenomenon, is used. The Littrow configuration can be used to find the optimal blaze angle for this phenomenon, which creates Airy disks and Arago spots. Babinet’s principle holds that an object’s opacity will obey this phenomenon, which can be described in a crystal as (*) two d sine theta equals an integer multiple of the light’s wavelength according to Bragg’s law. The near-field and far-field regimes of this phenomenon are named after Fresnel and Fraunhofer. This phenomenon, which spectrometers make use of by using a grating, can be understood by considering every point on the wavefronts the source of interfering secondary, spherical waves by Huygen's principle. For 10 points, name this phenomenon which is the bending of light around an obstacle.
Answer: Diffraction
Question: This quantity’s quantum mechanical operator is given by negative i times h-bar multiplied by the curl of position. It equals the integral with respect to position of vacuum permittivity times the cross product of electric field and magnetic field potential for an electromagnetic field and it gives the areal velocity when one type of it is divided by 2 times mass. That type is fixed according to Kepler’s second law (*) equals “m r-squared omega.” The Azimuthal quantum number describes this property for an electron, which arises as a result of rotational invariance as given by Noether’s theorem. This quantity, which can be determined from the l and m quantum numbers, comes in spin and orbital varieties in quantum mechanics. Its conservation is what keeps gyroscopes upright. Torque can be found when taking the derivative of this quantity with respect to time. For 10 points, name this rotational analogue of linear momentum, L, whose “intrinsic” type is spin and is equal to the moment of inertia times angular velocity.
Answer: Angular Momentum
Question: In the Winkler Test, a thiosulfate solution is used to perform this technique. EDTA is also commonly used to perform the complexometric type of this process through the chelation of magnesium and calcium ions. Dichromates and potassium permanganate are used in the “redox” type of this process (*) which can also be used to detect small quantities of water. That use is found in a variant innovated by Karl Fischer. Polyprotic acids yield multiple equivalence points in this technique, which makes use of phenolphthalein in its “acid-base” variety. Burettes slowly transfer solutions of known concentration in, for 10 points, what lab technique that is used to determine an unknown solution’s concentration.
Answer: Titration
Question: In this process, a Perkin triangle may be used for air-sensitive materials in the “vacuum” form of it for air-sensitive materials. The least number of theoretical plates needed for one type of this process can be given by the Fenske equation. Raschig rings are used in this process, which can be analyzed by the McCabe-Thiele method by using the mole fractions of materials used in it. (*) Crude oil is refined by using this technique’s fractional form. This process is governed by Raoult’s Law, but can only be done on azeotropes with a molecular sieve or an entrainer. An example of which would be an azeotropic mixture of 96% ethanol and 4% water. The alcohol content of beverages can be increased with this process that occurs when the vapor pressure of one substance equals the partial pressure in the apparatus of the surrounding gasses. For 10 points, name this process that separates liquids based on their boiling points.
Answer: Distillation [accept any specific types]
Question: This compound, which is emulsified with mineral oil to form microfluidic droplets, can be detected in Fischer titration with sulfur dioxide and iodine. The cohesion-tension model explains the movement of this substance through tracheids and vessel elements. The final reduction reaction of the electron transport chain produces this substance which produces positively-charged hydronium ions when combined with acids. (*) Nuclear reactors use a “heavy” form of this compound that contains deuterium. Labeled as an “unrecognized killer” by Nathan Zohner in 1997, Joseph Priestly combined nitric oxide and iron with this substance to make nitrous oxide. Long chains of hydrocarbons “fear” this compound as its hydrogen bond network only dissolves polar molecules. This substance’s hydrogen bonds are also attributed to its high specific heat. For 10 points, name this essential universal solvent that is found in namesake bottles.
Answer: Water [accept H2O or dihydrogen monoxide]
Question: In quantum mechanics, this quantity’s operator is negative i times h-bar times the partial derivative with respect to x. A Fourier transform can obtain the wavefunction in terms of this quantity, given the wavefunction in terms of position. The conservation of this quantity, restated by the Augustin-Louis Cauchy equation, is given by space translation symmetry by Noether’s Theorem. The de Broglie relation (*) finds a particle’s wavelength by dividing Planck’s constant by this quantity. Impulse is the change in this quantity that is predicted to equal energy when multiplied by the speed of light according to Special Relativity. Newton’s second has this quantity equal to the time derivative of force, while his cradle can show its conservation. For 10 points, name this quantity that is conserved in inelastic collisions and is equal to mass times velocity.
Answer: Momentum
Question: Appearing as “ragged red” fibers due to some diseases, these structures are impaired in Huntington’s disease. While some organisms have hydrogenosomes in place of this organelle, the endosymbiotic theory claims that this was a bacteria that had been engulfed by a larger cell. Cytochrome C that is released from this organelle, that contains ubiquinone, (*) triggers apoptosis. The electron transport chain is in the inner membrane of this organelle that also contains a matrix with maternal DNA. Cardiolipin is rich in this organelle that contains folds called cristae. The synthesis of adenosine triphosphate, or ATP, takes place in, for 10 points, what organelle that is nicknamed the “powerhouse of the cell.”
Answer: Mitochondrion or Mitochondria
Question: Alloys of niobium and tin or titanium rely on this phenomenon for their main industrial uses. This phenomenon is described by the London equations, which are similarly named to a characteristic depth of materials exhibiting this property at which the magnetic field equals the surface magnetic field over the fundamental charge. Bednorz and Müller discovered this phenomenon in a lanthanum-based cuprate perovskite material. (*) The two main theories that describe this phenomenon are the Ginzburg-Landau Theory and BCS Theory. The latter of the two describes it as the condensation of electrons into Cooper pairs. Substances which exhibit this property may expel magnetic fields in the Meissner effect, which allows them to “levitate.” YBCO displays a high-temperature variety of, for 10 points, what phenomenon in which a material exhibits zero electrical resistance.
Answer: Superconductivity
Question: A nonuniform velocity distribution of particles causes a broadening of spectral lines due to this effect, which laser cooling relies on. The square root of 1 plus beta over 1 minus beta gives the magnitude of the relativistic type of this effect. The Ives-Stillwell experiment used canal rays to verify the transverse form of this effect. The random motion of atoms induces (*) thermal broadening of spectral lines due to this effect. The direction in which stars are moving based on redshift and blueshift can be determined by this effect. It is commonly used to explain the change in pitch and volume of ambulance sirens or to detect speeding vehicles via handheld radars. For 10 points, name this phenomenon that is responsible for the change in frequency of a wave when its source moves.
Answer: Doppler Effect
Question: These particles that are shot from a welding machine in one process to fuse metals are the concern of the Drude model. Firing these particles through an ultrathin sample can form an image, while the Davisson-Germer experiment fired these particles at a nickel target. (*) The Stern-Gerlach experiment demonstrated these particles’ spin, which obey the Pauli exclusion principle. The photoelectric effect results in the ejection of these particles that are a more miniscule counterpart of the other leptons, tauons and muons. For 10 points, name these negatively charged subatomic particles that orbit the nucleus of an atom.
Answer: Electrons
Question: Spin networks are quantized in the namesake loop theory of this phenomenon whose redshift was proven by the Pound-Rebka experiment. This phenomenon is theorized to be caused by undiscovered gauge bosons with a spin of 2 because it is described by a second-order tensor. A consequence of this phenomenon was observed in the Eddington experiment. (*) The namesake lensing that arises from the effect this phenomenon has of light waves can cause multiple images of distant objects to appear. LIGO confirmed the existence of this force’s waves. This weakest of the fundamental forces is the only one not described by the Standard Model, and is instead the effect of the curvature of spacetime according to the theory of General Relativity. For 10 points, name this attractive force between objects with mass that accelerates objects 9.8 meters per second squared on Earth.
Answer: Gravity
Question: Trans,trans-muconic is found in urine following exposure to this compound, which usually comes from tobacco smoke. A derivative of this compound can be added to three nitro groups to yield an explosive material. The Friedel-Crafts alkylation makes cumene by the addition of propene to this compound. Naphthalene consists of (*) two molecules of this compound, whose dimer is the prototypical system used to study pi-pi stacking. That is due to this compound’s large quadrupole moment. Phenol is the result of the hydroxylation of this compound, whereas toluene arises from its methylation. August Kekulé proposed this molecule’s structure following a dream about a snake eating its own tail. 6 delocalized pi electrons in this planar hydrocarbon make it an aromatic compound. For 10 points, name this cyclic, carcinogenic molecule with formula C6H6.
Answer: Benzene
Question: This element, which neutron capture therapy uses an isotope of to absorb neutrons, is used in an anti-Markovnikov process that converts alkenes to alcohols. Able to form three-center two-electron bonds in its hydrides, this element is in an organic compound used in the Suzuki reaction. “Closo-,” “nido-,” or “arachno-,” (*) are classifications of this element’s hydrides according to Wade’s rules. Counting the bonds between this element and hydrogen yields the digits of the Styx number. This element’s trifluoride is a Lewis acid while the wurtzite form of its nitride is harder than diamond. Violating the octet rule by wanting 6 electrons in its valence shell is, for 10 points, what element that can be harvested from ulexite and kernite and is used to dope p-type semiconductors.
Answer: Boron
Question: In an equation for this quantity, it can be found as kappa over 2 pi. This quantity times internal energy minus entropy gives Helmholtz free energy. When this quantity is raised to the fourth power, it is proportional to the power emitted by a blackbody. Luminosity is plotted against it in the (*) Hertzsprung-Russell diagram of stars. In phase diagrams, pressure is typically plotted against this quantity. The third law of thermodynamics states that when entropy is zero, this quantity is zero at absolute zero. For 10 points, name this quantity that is typically measured in Celsius.
Answer: Temperature [do not prompt or accept “heat”]
Question: This organ, which can be destroyed by hypoglycin A in Ackee fruit, can be affected by Von Gierke disease. Part of the Cori cycle in this organ consists of lactate produced by muscles moving into this organ. Another cycle in this organ produces (*) 2 ammonia molecules and one carbon dioxide molecule; that cycle is the Urea cycle. Receiving most of its blood supply through the portal vein, that blood later leaves through the hepatic vein. For 10 points, name this organ that can be afflicted with cirrhosis from chronic alcohol abuse.
Answer: Liver
Question: The strengthening of carboxylic acids through the inductive effect can be attributed to high values of this quantity. Jacob Berzelius came up with the modern term that is used for this quantity, replacing “oxygenicity.” A form of it can be found by taking the effective charge squared divided by the covalent radius, although a (*) scale using hydrogen fixed at 2.20 is more commonly used; that scale is the Pauling scale. Caesium has the lowest value of this quantity on the Pauling scale with 0.79. For 10 points, name this measure of how strongly electrons are attracted to an atom.
Answer: Electronegativity
Question: Enterochromaffin-like cells in this organ produce histamine in response to a hormone that is secreted by G cells in this organ. Infections in this organ from Helicobacter pylori can be found by testing for the presence of urease. Chief cells in this organ produce (*) intrinsic factor, a glycoprotein that binds to vitamin B12. A lack of this intrinsic factor can cause the disease Pernicious Anemia. Chyme, which is created in this organ, is sent to the small intestine through the pyloric sphincter. For 10 points, name this organ whose namesake acid breaks down food, and rumbles when you are hungry.
Answer: Stomach
Question: In one variety of this technique, that was developed by Erika Cremer, a flame ionization detector is used. An equation relating variance per unit length of a separation column to the linear mobile phase velocity governs this technique; that equation is the Van Deemter Equation. The Affinity version of this technique involves the interaction of Embedded metal ions with polyhistidine tagged proteins. (*) The retention factor of this technique can be calculated using the distance that the solvent front has migrated. A silica gel coated glass plate is used in the “thin layer” form of this technique. For 10 points, name this technique that is used to separate molecules by polarity, most commonly used to separate the dyes of pen ink on a piece of paper.
Answer: Chromatography [accept specific types]
Question: A defective phosphotransferase enzyme in this structure is the cause of I-cell disease. Brefeldin A can inhibit transport to this organelle that is responsible for glycosylation. Molecules can be tagged by this organelle for lysosomes by the attachment of mannose-6-phosphate at its cis face. (*) COPII vesicles transport proteins into this organelle, whereas COPI vesicles transport proteins out from this structure, which is made up of flattened disks. Those disks are called cisternae. This organelle is where the rough endoplasmic reticulum transports molecules for post-translational modification. For 10 points, name this organelle that is named after an Italian scientist and packages and modifies proteins.
Answer: Golgi apparatus [accept Golgi body or Golgi complex]
Question: This type of process is allowed for by the Y Combinator whereas “fixed-point” combinators are usually used in the “anonymous” form of this method. The Ackermann function is one function that is not able to be expressed using this technique. Memoization is a faster alternative to this method (*) whose “tail” version reuses the stack frame of the previous function call. The divide-and-conquer solution to the Tower of Hanoi problem and the algorithm for merge sort make use of this method. Linked lists and trees are data types that are defined using this concept. For 10 points, name this programming technique where a function calls itself, and is one way of calculating factorials and Fibonacci numbers.
Answer: Recursion
Question: Proofs of a theorem regarding these numbers used the zeta function. Wilson’s theorem can be used to find these numbers, which Fermat’s little theorem involves the division of. RSA cryptography makes use of these numbers that can also be found using the AKS and Miller-Rabin tests. (*) The number of them less than a given number is approximately that number divided by its natural log. Goldbach’s conjecture concerns these numbers that Euclid showed there are an infinite number of. The Sieve of Atkin is an optimized method of computing these types of numbers. For 10 points, name these types of numbers the divisors of one and themself.
Answer: Prime Numbers
Question: Lipinski’s rule of five limits a drug candidate’s use of this effect that allows carboxylic acids to form dimers in solutions. The strength of these interactions increases with decreasing temperature and they are strongest in bifluoride ions. Alpha helices arise from these interactions between ith and i + 4 residues. (*) Three of these interactions can be found between guanine and cytosine, whereas only two are present between adenine and thymine. The high boiling point of water is explained through these interactions which also cause the hexagonal lattice structure of ice. For 10 points, name these strong dipole-dipole interactions that are named for the lightest element.
Answer: Hydrogen Bonds [accept H-bonds or H-bonding; prompt on bond or dipole-dipole before mention]
Question: This mathematician’s namesake product indexed by prime numbers is equal to the Riemann zeta function. Along with Mascheroni, the constant symbolized lowercase gamma is named after this man and is the limiting difference between the harmonic series and the natural logarithm. The first-order method of solving differential equations is the simplest Runge-Kutta method and named after this man. (*) Proving that the infinite sum of the reciprocal of squares equals pi squared over six, this mathematician solved the Basel problem. His namesake number raised to the power of the product of i and pi is equal to -1. That same number raised to the power of i times x is equal to cosine of x plus i times the sine of x. For 10 points, name this blind Swiss mathematician who introduced graph theory through the Seven Bridges of Königsberg problem, and has a namesake number equal to about 2.718.
Answer: Leonhard Euler
Question: In these objects, the subject of the “buzzsaw” hypothesis, strain rate and basal shear stress are related according to Glen’s flow law. Bergschrunds can form through the movement of these objects, which can occur through basal sliding. These objects may start out as Firn before undergoing accumulation or ablation. (*) Isostatic rebound occurs in the absence of these features, of which Piedmonts are one variety. Dark and light bands called Ogives are caused by the seasonal movement of these objects. Moraines and drumlins can be created by these objects. For 10 points, name these large, mobile masses of ice.
Answer: Glaciers
Question: X-ray crystallography was utilized by Dorothy Hodgkin to figure out the structure of this molecule, whose inactive form exists as a hexamer stabilized by zinc atoms. Sulfonylureas trigger the release of this compound whose synthesis involves the cleavage of the C-peptide. That process leaves the A- and B- chains of this molecule linked together by (*) disulfide bonds. GLUT4 receptors are regulated by this hormone which was sequenced by Frederick Sanger. Beta cells on the islets of Langerhans produce this stimulant of glycogen production. Glucagon’s action opposes, for 10 points, what pancreatic hormone that lowers blood sugar.
Answer: Insulin
Question: Rieske proteins and aconitase both contain this element bound to iron. Pumping superheated water into the earth can extract this element which is used by the PDI enzyme in the ER. That enzyme forms namesake (*) “bridges” between cysteine residues in proteins. Vulcanized rubber contains those same bridges of this element, that when switched with the oxygen in alcohols, forms thiols. The contact process produces a diprotic acid of this element. Nitrogen and this element’s oxides are responsible for acid rain. For 10 points, name this “smelly” element with atomic number 16.
Answer: Sulfur
Question: The Stoner criterion must be met for this phenomenon to occur. The Barkhausen effect involves noise produced by this phenomenon, which can undergo a namesake hysteresis. Lars Onsager analytically solved a 2-D model of this property, which consisted of a lattice of spins. (*) That model is the Ising model. The Curie temperature sets an upper bound on the occurrence of this behavior that arises from the alignment of an object’s Weiss domains. Rare earth metals, such as neodymium, exhibit this behavior. Iron, cobalt, and nickel also exhibit, for 10 points, what form of permanent magnetism?
Answer: Ferromagnetism [accept words forms such as ferromagnetic; prompt on magnetism before mention; reject other forms of magnetism such as “paramagnetism”]
Question: Terasaki ramps are features of this organelle that is the site of N-linked glycosylation. Disulfide isomerase is an enzyme in this organelle that assists in protein folding. The Sec61 complex has the translocons of this organelle that transmits an unfolded protein response through its lumen. (*) Vesicles bound for this organelle are marked with COPI whereas vesicles marked with COPII leave this organelle for the Golgi apparatus. The sarcoplasmic variety of this organelle stores calcium ions and is essential in muscle contraction. This organelle, which contains a network of flattened discs called cisternae, is attached to the nuclear membrane. For 10 points, name this organelle that can be “smooth” or “rough” depending on the presence of ribosomes.
Answer: Endoplasmic Reticulum [accept ER or sarcoplasmic reticulum]
Question: The first step of the Olin Raschig process sees the chlorination of this molecule that is also involved in the Solvay process. That process produces soda ash from the reaction of carbon dioxide with this molecule. Iron and or Molybdenum are typically used by organisms to naturally synthesize this compound. The Birch Reduction (*) reduce benzene with a liquid form of this molecule along with sodium. The solution from that reduction subsequently turns a deep blue color. Aldehydes and ketones can be distinguished using Tollens’ reagent, which is made up of this compound and silver. Nitric acid is produced in the Ostwald process through the use of this compound, whose synthesis can be aided with an iron catalyst. The Haber-Bosch process creates, for 10 points, what molecule that is commonly used in fertilizer and has the formula NH3?
Answer: Ammonia
Question: This quantity, that can be measured in oersteds in the CGS system, has a divergence equal to zero according to Gauss’ Law. The cyclotron frequency can be found by multiplying this quantity with charge and dividing by mass. Two Josephson junctions in a SQUID can measure this quantity that can be found using its Jefimenko equation. (*) Crossing this quantity with velocity and multiplying by charge yields the Lorentz force. The splitting of spectral lines in the Zeeman effect arises from this quantity that can induce a light wave to rotate its plane of polarization in the Faraday effect. The Biot-Savart law calculates this quantity with the SI unit of the tesla. For 10 points, name this vector field that is commonly denoted B and contrasted with the electric field.
Answer: Magnetic Field
Question: Frozen ammonia crystals are found in the white cloud of this planet that gave the New Horizons spacecraft a gravity assist. The fourth and fifth lagrangian points of this planet are occupied by Trojans. Prefixing the name of this planet with “hot” names a group of exoplanets. Amalthea is a (*) moon of this planet that is responsible for the Kirkwood gaps of the asteroid belt through orbital resonances with it. The Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 collided with this planet that has the shortest day. The Galilean moons of Callisto, Io, Europa, and Ganymede are among the 79 total moons of this planet. For 10 points, name this largest planet in the solar system that has the Great Red Spot.
Answer: Jupiter
Question: CGG triplet repeats on the FMR1 gene of this structure lead to its namesake “fragile” syndrome from a lack of FMRP protein. The Xist RNA plays an important role in the dosage compensation of these structures, causing their inactivation during Lyonization. That process creates (*) barr bodies and is responsible for the calico coloring of some cats. An extra one of these structures leads to Klinefelter syndrome while a lack of one causes Turner syndrome Genes. Hemophilia and red-green colorblindness are linked to this structure, which is why males have them more often. For 10 points, name this human chromosome that is females have two of while males only have one of.
Answer: X Chromosome
Question: Solutions of these compounds, which come in isotactic, syndiotactic, and atactic varieties, are described by the Flory-Huggins model. The Carothers equation describes the production of these compounds that can be formed from alkenes through the use of Ziegler-Natta catalysts. Tacticity and dispersity are two properties (*) of these materials which describe their orientation of their subunits and their molecular mass distribution. “Chain-growth” and “step-growth” are two mechanisms of producing these compounds that can increase tensile strength through crosslinking. Initiation, elongation, and termination are three steps in producing these compounds, examples of which include nylon and rubber. For 10 points, name these macromolecules that are comprised of repeating monomers.
Answer: Polymers
Question: 573 degrees Celsius is where this mineral transitions from its alpha to its beta form. The bottom of the Goldich dissolution series and Bowen’s reaction series is occupied by this mineral due to its weathering resistance and low crystallization temperature. Presence of iridium and the “shocked” form of this mineral, (*) which has coesite as one of its polymorphs, supports the Alvarez hypothesis regarding a meteor impact in Chicxulub. Due to its piezoelectricity, this mineral is commonly used in watches. This mineral exists in the orange and purple variants citrine and amethyst, while microcrystalline forms of it make up chert. For 10 points, name this mineral that has a 7 on the Mohs hardness scale with chemical formula SiO2.
Answer: Quartz [prompt on silicon dioxide, silica, or SiO2 before last word] 
Question: Drabkin’s reagent can be used to quantify amounts of this protein, whose A1C type can be used to diagnose diabetes. Regulated by 2,3-BPG, this protein can be detected using BOLD-contrast imaging in fMRIs. The relaxed R and tense T formations exist for this protein, whose production can be affected by Thalassemia. The Bohr Effect and the Haldane effect concern changes in the function of this protein with respect to pH and carbon dioxide level changes. (*) Four porphyrin subunits around an iron center make up this protein, two of which are alpha while two are beta. A glutamate-to-valine mutation can cause this protein to take on a sickle shape in a disease that provides protection against malaria. For 10 points, name this protein that is found in red blood cells and transports oxygen.
Answer: Hemoglobin
Question: Finding the negative of the slope of a Scatchard Plot yields this quantity which can be made unitless by expressing it as a ratio of activities. The “pressure” and “concentration” versions of this quantity can be converted between each other by the product of RT and the integer power of change in moles of a gas. Pure solids and liquids don’t contribute to the calculation of this quantity. (*) The product of the natural log of this quantity and negative RT yields Gibbs free energy. The van’t Hoff equation relates this quantity to temperature and standard enthalpy change. Le Chatelier’s Principle concerns the shifting of this quantity which can be calculated with the law of mass action. When the reaction quotient Q is less than this quantity, a reaction is said to favor the products. For 10 points, name this constant symbolized K that names a point where forward and reverse reaction rates are equal.
Answer: Equilibrium Constant
Question: This quantity can be defined in its Komar form on stationary spacetimes. The gap of this quantity in Yang-Mills theory remains an unsolved problem. Luminosity is related to the 3.5th power of this quantity whose non-zero value in neutrinos allows them to oscillate flavors. The “reduced” form of this quantity in the two-body problem can be found by taking the harmonic mean of it for two objects, (*) while an imaginary value of it allows tachyons to surpass the speed of light. The no-hair theorem holds that a black can be characterized by charge, angular momentum, and this quantity. The equivalence principle holds the inertial and gravitational forms of this quantity as similarly behaving. Particles that interact with the Higgs boson acquire some of, for 10 points, what quantity that is measured in kilograms.
Answer: Mass
Question: The Noachian, Hesperian, and Amazonian epochs occurred on this planet which contains prominent “blueberry” formations. This planet is orbited by an object whose terrain is dominated by the Stickney Crater. The Borealis Basin covers (*) 40% of this planet that is home to a large canyon and the Tharsis region, which is home to the  tallest planet in the solar system. Valles Marinaris and Olympus Mons are on this planet which Giovanni Schiaparelli depicted as having channels. Phobos and Deimos are moons of, for 10 points, what fourth planet from the sun that was visited by Spirit and Opportunity?
Answer: Mars
Question:  The Entner-Doudoroff pathway is a variant of this process that occurs much more rapidly in cancer cells and provides most of their energy in the Warburg Effect. Along with converting DHAP to G3P, this process occurs in the cytosol with an investment and payoff phases. (*) A net gain of two ATP molecules and two NADH molecules is the result of this process. Phosphofructokinase, hexokinase, and glucokinase are enzymes in this pathway that creates G6P in its first step. The EMP pathway is, for 10 points, what step of cellular respiration that splits glucose into two pyruvate molecules?
Answer: Glycolysis
The Stern-Geary equation, a modified version of this equation relates polarization resistance and corrosion current. This equation that is derivable using Boltzmann factors can also be derived from the Butler-Volmer equation when reaction rate is zero. The vertical axis of a Pourbaix diagram is constructed from this equation that can be modified to get the Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz equation. (*) That equation can be applied to a cell membrane to find the potential across it with respect to an ion. The Third Law of Thermodynamics was discovered by the namesake of this equation. Faraday’s constant and the natural logarithm of the reaction are on the right side of, for 10 points, what equation that calculates the reduction potential of a half-cell?
Answer: Nernst Equation
Question: A device composed of “sun” and “planetary” gears multiplies this quantity, which can be expressed as the cross product of dipole moment and electric field. The ratio of this quantity to the maximum shear stress on a beam can be used to find the polar moment of inertia. The product of current, magnetic field, and area of a loop calculates this quantity which precession (*) can be “free” or “induced” by. Integrating this quantity with respect to theta gives the work done over theta, whereas multiplying it by angular velocity gives power. Moment of inertia times angular acceleration gives this first time derivative of angular momentum.The right hand rule is useful in determining this cross product of radius and force. Tau represents, for 10 points, what rotational analogue of force?
Answer: Torque