Question: The “Cross” of this thinker determines the occurrence of equilibrium to be on the intersection of a 45 degree line and aggregate demand. Noting that “in the long run, we are all dead” in A tract on Monetary Reform, this economist argued against Say’s Law and proposed a hypothetical “beauty contest.” This man claimed that a “Carthaginian Peace” (*) came from the Treaty of Versailles in The Economic Consequences of Peace, seeing its terms as disastrous. The IS-LM model is based on the ideas of this thinker, who created a fiscal multiplier and argued for “priming the pump” through deficit spending in a well-known work. For 10 points, name this British economist who authored The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money.
Answer: John Maynard Keynes
Question: A Rap on Race was written by James Baldwin and this thinker who convinced the American Jewish Committee to study shtetl, resulting in the publishing of a book that created the Jewish mother stereotype. The Arapesh, Mundugumor, and Tchambuli were studied by this author of the book And Keep Your Powder Dry. (*) The “Fateful Hoaxing” of this thinker occurred from a series of interviews that they conducted. Derek Freemen coined that term regarding a famous study this thinker conducted on the island of Ta’u. That study saw the publication of Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies. For 10 points, name this student of Franz Boas who wrote Coming of Age in Samoa.
Answer: Margaret Mead
Question: This man advocated for school vouchers and, along with L. J. Savage, names a utility function that possesses a curvature dependent upon the wealth of an individual. This economist’s permanent income hypothesis posits that spending patterns are based on expected rather than current income. A floating exchange rate is advocated for by this man who claims that theories should be judged by simplicity and fruitfulness. (*) The “k-percent rule” of this economist holds that a central bank should increase its supply by a constant percent annually. Edmund Phelps worked to develop the thought of a natural rate of unemployment with this man, who also collaborated with Anna Schwartz on A Monetary History of the United States. The Chicago School of economics was founded by, for 10 points, what monetarist economist who wrote Capitalism and Freedom.
Answer: Milton Friedman